---
layout: post
title: Git 101
---

## GIT 101
Git allows groups of people to work on the same documents at the same time, and without stepping on each other's toes. Git is the industry-standard version control system for web developers.

Here are the main command key that you will have to use them all the time in git

To initialize a Git repository here:
```
git init
```

Inspects the contents of the working directory and staging area:

```
git status
```

Adds files from the working directory and the staging area:
```
git add     
```

Shows the difference between the working directory and the staging area:
```
git diff    
```

Commits permanently store file changes from the staging area in the repo
Insert a message for your commit:
```
git commit -m "" 
```

Shows a list of all previous commits:
```
git log     
```

Push the local repo to server --> go live:
```
git push origin master 
```


## Example of working with local repo from git

### nvivie.github.io example - fresh start: https://github.com/nvivie/nvivie.github.io

1. In Github, create a new branch called 'dev'. All the changes will be working under dev branch. Once you are done with changes, you can merge and push it master branch.

2. On GitHub, navigate to the main page of the repository.

3. Under your repository name, copy the clone URL for the repository

4. Open Terminal, use <cd> to navigate to your folder.

5. In order to work on changes, you have to CLONE the project to your machine. In Terminal, navigate to the folder that you want to save the local repo.

```
cd Documents 
git clone https_url_of_github_repo
ex: git clone https://github.com/nvivie/nvivie.github.io.git
```

6.CHECKOUT 'dev' branch. This is a very important step. Make sure you work on the right branch to avoid override someone files.

```
git checkout dev
```

7.To add branch

```
git checkout -b newBranchName
```

8.To switch to master branch

```
git checkout master
```

9.Testing: modify a small change in your file in Sublime. Save it


10. In Terminal, navigate to the local repo folder so it will only watch for changes in that folder.

```
cd nvivie.nguyen.io
```

11. Then, ADD (+) the changed file.

```
git add index.html
```

12. Commit a message

```
git commit -m"writing a message"
```

13.Push to dev branch

```
git push origin dev
```


